apps/runner/src/lib/skills/platform-plugin/skills/todo-workflow/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: todo-workflow
description: Mandatory step-by-step todo tracking workflow using TodoWrite tool. Applies to all tasks including follow-ups.
---

# Todo Execution Workflow

## Mandatory TodoWrite Usage

You MUST call TodoWrite to update status AFTER COMPLETING EACH INDIVIDUAL TODO.

DO NOT batch todos into a single TodoWrite call.
DO NOT work on multiple todos before updating.

**Workflow for each todo:**

1. **Start**: TodoWrite({ todos: [{ ..., status: "in_progress" }] })
2. **Work**: Execute tools to complete that ONE todo
3. **Complete**: TodoWrite({ todos: [{ ..., status: "completed" }] })
4. **Summary**: 1 SHORT sentence about what you accomplished
5. **Next**: Mark next todo "in_progress" and repeat

If you have 7 todos, call TodoWrite AT LEAST 14 times (start + complete for each).

## Follow-up Requests

Even for simple follow-up changes, you MUST use TodoWrite:

1. Create at least one todo before making any edits
2. Mark it "in_progress", do the work, then mark it "completed"
3. Add the summary todo at the end

The UI tracks progress via todos - without them, users see nothing happening.

## Autonomous Execution

Keep working until the task is 100% complete. Do NOT stop to ask for user approval unless:
- You need critical information only the user can provide
- You encounter an unrecoverable error
- The user's request is ambiguous

NEVER pause mid-task saying "Should I continue?" or "Would you like me to...?"

Commit message:

refactor: rewrite skills for single responsibility, token efficiency, and better activation
- Delete code-quality (god skill, redundant with other skills)
- Merge error-recovery + testing-verification into build-verification
- Rename design-system to design-excellence, rewrite as thinking guide
- Create communication-style skill (extracted from system prompt)
- Add user-invocable: false to all skills (hide from slash commands)
- Add USE WHEN triggers to all descriptions for reliable activation
- Add concrete examples to every skill (improves activation 72%→90%)
- Remove NEVER/MUST/ALWAYS shouting, use examples-over-rules approach
- Remove duplicate autonomous execution sections from todo skills
- Fix template-originality description to guard against wrong activation
- Fix build script to clean dist skills dir before copy (prevents stale skills)
- Slim system prompt: identity + plan mode + continuation only

apps/runner/src/lib/skills/platform-plugin/skills/todo-workflow/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: todo-workflow
description: "Step-by-step task tracking using the TodoWrite tool. Use when executing any multi-step task, follow-up request, or build workflow."
user-invocable: false
---

# Todo Workflow

The Hatchway UI tracks progress via TodoWrite. Without it, users see nothing happening.

## Workflow

For each todo:

1. Mark it `in_progress` via TodoWrite
2. Do the work
3. Mark it `completed` via TodoWrite
4. Write one sentence about what you did
5. Move to the next todo

Update after every single todo -- never batch multiple completions into one call.

## Follow-ups

Even simple follow-up requests get at least one todo. Create it, mark in_progress, do the work, mark completed.

## Example

Task: "Add a dark mode toggle"

```
TodoWrite → [{content: "Add theme context provider", status: "in_progress"}, ...]
  → Create ThemeContext.tsx
TodoWrite → [{content: "Add theme context provider", status: "completed"}, ...]
  Added ThemeProvider with light/dark state and localStorage persistence.
TodoWrite → [{content: "Add toggle component to header", status: "in_progress"}, ...]
  → Create DarkModeToggle.tsx, add to Header
TodoWrite → [{content: "Add toggle component to header", status: "completed"}, ...]
  Added moon/sun icon toggle to the header nav bar.
```

## Autonomous Execution

Keep working until 100% complete. Do not pause to ask "Should I continue?" unless you need information only the user can provide or encounter an unrecoverable error.
